But there's a problem
with rejection sampling.
If the evidence is unlikely, you end
up rejecting a lot of the samples.
Let's go back to the alarm network
where we had variables for burglary and
for an alarm.
And say we're interested in computing
the probability of a burglary given that
the alarm goes off.
The problem is that burglaries
are very infrequent, so
most of the samples we would
get would end up being,
we start with generating a B,
and we get a -B and then a -A.
We go back and say, does this match?
No?
We have to reject the sample, so
we generate another sample, and
we get another minus -b, -a.
We reject that, we get another -b,-a,
and we keep rejecting and eventually
we get a +b, but we'd end up spending
a lot of time rejecting samples.
So we're going to introduce a new
method called Likelihood Weighting that
generates samples so
that we can keep everyone.
With likelihood weighting, we fix
the evidence variables, that is we say
that A will always be positive, and then
we sample the rest of the variables.
So then, we get samples that we want,
we would get
a list like -b, + a,- b, +a, +b, +a.
We get to keep every sample,
but we have a problem.
The resulting set of
samples is inconsistent.
We can fix that however, by assigning
a probability to each sample and
weighing them correctly.